 We begin by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala and bearing witness that none has the right to be worshipped or unconditionally obeyed except for him. We bear witness that Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam is his final messenger. We ask Allah to send his peace and blessings upon him, the prophets and messengers that came before him, his family and companions that served alongside him and those that follow in his blessed path until the day of judgment. We ask Allah to make us amongst them. Allahumma ameen. Dear brothers and sisters, the ayah in the Quran, إِنَّ الَّذِينَ قَالُوا رَبُّنَا اللَّهُ ثُمَّ اسْتَقَامُوا تَتَنَزَّلُ عَلَيْهِمُ الْمَلَائِكَةُ أَلَّا تَخَافُوا وَلَا تَحْزَنُوا Until the end of the ayah. Where Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says, Verily those who believe and they remain firm, the angels descend upon them and say to them, Do not be afraid and do not grieve. This ayah is often brought up solely in the context of death. That when the believer is dead, when the believer is dying, the angels descend upon the believer and the angels put the believer at ease and the angels say to the believer, Don't be afraid and don't grieve. وَأَبَشِرُوا بِالْجَنَّةِ الَّتِي كُنْتُمْ تُوَعَدُونَ And glad tidings of the paradise that you were promised. And subhanallah, one of the things about this verse is that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala did not restrict this verse to the time of death. Even though you will need the angels, to descend upon you more at that time than any other time of your existence. And even though there is something distinct about that moment, which is that you can actually see the angels, not just perceive them, you can see them, you can hear them directly telling you, Don't be afraid and do not grieve. But many of the scholars of tafsir mention that Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala not restricting this verse to the time of death is for the benefit that the angels descend upon you. That the angels descend upon us throughout our entire lives and Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala sends them to be a comforting presence to us in our most difficult moments. Especially when we are abiding by the part of استقاموا قالوا ربنا الله ثم استقاموا Anytime we are saying our Lord is Allah and we're remaining steadfast, there is a descent of angels upon the believer that put them at ease and say don't be afraid and don't grieve. And so basically understand the verse this way. That anytime there is a reason for you to be in a state of fear or grief, there is an opening for Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to cause angels to descend upon you and to settle your heart and to say, أَلَّا تَخَافُوا وَلَا تَحْسَنُوا Don't be afraid and do not grieve. Why is this so significant to interpret outside of the place of death? Because sometimes there are moments when we feel like we're suffocating by abiding by the commandment, the command of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala or wanting to do for the sake of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala especially when we see the devastating circumstances in the world. We feel like we're suffocating but we need that opening from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala even if it is not the خَنْقَ the strangle of death. And I want to take you to two scenes of the Prophet ﷺ that we often disconnect. Where do we summon that inner strength that is necessary for continuous steadfastness, steadfastness. There is Rasulullah ﷺ as the worshipper and there is Rasulullah ﷺ as the warrior and the ingredient that grounded the Prophet ﷺ in his worship is exactly the same ingredient that grounded him as a warrior ﷺ. How? The very famous hadith of Hudhayfah ibn al-Yaman radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu. He says, I walked in on the Prophet ﷺ as he was in his qiyam and I joined the messenger of Allah ﷺ, in the first rak'ah. And this is Hudhayfah who is the furthest away from hypocrisy, the secret keeper of the Prophet ﷺ. It's a very famous hadith. And he said, I prayed behind the Prophet ﷺ and he started to recite Surah Al-Baqarah. And I thought he would recite only up to 100 verses but he continued, until he finished 200 verses. And Hudhayfah radiyaAllahu anhu was admitting that he's getting a lot of work done. He's getting a little antsy. Because the Prophet ﷺ in his qiyam would recite one verse at a time and he would make dua and dhikr after every verse. So his Surah Al-Baqarah is not like our Surah Al-Baqarah. Then he finished Surah Al-Baqarah. Then I thought he'd finish. Then he started, alayhi salatu wasalam, al-Nisa. I thought he'd read 100 verses. He finished 100 verses. He kept going. He finished al-Nisa. You can imagine Hudhayfah radiyaAllahu anhu, his exhaustion. And he's thinking, okay, finally we're going to go into ruku'ah. Bad'a bi-ali imran. He started ali imran. I thought he'd do 100 verses. He finished the whole Surah, alayhi salatu wasalam. Then he went into ruku'ah. And you think ruku'ah is a break. His ruku'ah was as long as his standing, alayhi salatu wasalam. His sujood was as long as his standing, salallahu alayhi wasalam. And that's why when a companion of that stature says, hamamtu bisu, that I thought to do something really bad, which was to abandon the Prophet ﷺ and his salat and sujood, I couldn't keep up with him. The way he could grab, surround himself in salat, was the most ajeeb thing about the Prophet ﷺ. The strangest thing about the Prophet ﷺ, by the words of our mother Aisha radiyaAllahu ta'ala anha, it was the strangest thing about him ﷺ. The most amazing thing about him was how long he could stand in prayer at night. And he got up and what did he recite? He finished as-saba'at qiwal, the seven long Surahs. So he continued with al-ma'idah alayhi salatu wasalam, continued with al-an'am, and he kept on going, salallahu alayhi wasalam, with the same pace. Umm Salama radiyaAllahu ta'ala anha said, I remember seeing the Prophet ﷺ sick, in his sickness. And he recited all seven of the long Surahs in the first rak'ah alayhi salatu wasalam. It was strange. It was a strange thing to see him grounded in his salat with his feet swelling as if he's not noticing alayhi salatu wasalam the swelling in his feet. There's physical pain, but there's spiritual joy. What he's getting is greater than what he's giving, alayhi salatu wasalam, but if you saw him in that, you say, masha'Allah. The Prophet's ﷺ feet had thabaat, firmness, that no one else had in the time of prayer. Now compare that to the battlefield where Ali radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu, and Ali radiyaAllahu anhu is no joke. He's a lion of Allah. Ali radiyaAllahu anhu is the most courageous of people. He's the person that responds to the call out from the other side, and goes, and goes to the battlefield. You talk about front line, Ali radiyaAllahu anhu always confronts their front line. But he says, radiyaAllahu ta'ala anhu, Ali, كُنَّ إِذَا حْمَرَّ الْبَأْسُ وَلَقِيَ الْقَوْمُ الْقَوْمُ that when the sun used to be right on top of our heads in battle, وَلَقِيَ الْقَوْمُ الْقَوْمُ like we were face to face, literally in the heat of battle. قَالَ تَقَيْنَا بِرَسُولِ اللَّهِ صَلَّى اللَّهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمَ فَمَا يَكُونُ مِنَّا أَحَدٌ أَدْنَى مِنَ الْقَوْمِ مِنْهُ We would all start hiding behind the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam. We take shelter with the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam. And no one would be closer to the enemy than him sallallahu alayhi wa sallam. You talk about front lines, no one would be closer to the enemy than him sallallahu alayhi wa sallam. He'd be right in their face. Usually the leader stays behind. Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam changed the game, changed the dynamics. He would be right in their face. He would be right in their face. أنا النبي لا كذب. أنا ابن عبد المطلب. I am the Prophet. And that is no lie. I am the son of عبد المطلب. اللهم نصرك العزيز. Oh Allah, send down your victory upon us. Pour down your victory upon us. Ali saying we have to get behind him. So there is a connection between the firmness of the feet of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam at night that no one could understand and the firmness of the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam in the battlefield that no one could understand. What planted his feet there, planted his feet here. You hear about the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam as present as he was with his family. When the call of adhan came, كأنه لا يعرفنا It's as if he didn't even know us anymore. Immediate to the salah. وثب صلى الله عليه وسلم من فراشه He would jump out of his bed if he was sleeping sallallahu alayhi wa sallam like a lion. And he would rush to the masjid عليه الصلاة والسلام When adhan comes, the call of Allah overwhelms the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam. It's the call of every other comfort in this world. But have you compared that to what Anas sallallahu alayhi wa sallam says when he says sallallahu alayhi wa sallam that he was أشجع الناس He was the most courageous man I ever saw. وقد فزع أهل المدينة ليلة سمعوا صوته One time the people of Medina shook because they heard a loud noise on the outside like we were being attacked. There's a process that has to happen there. There is a process that has to happen there. Is it worth it? The same process when it comes to salah. Is it worth it? Do I go now? Is it worth it at night? Or do I hit the snooze button? Is it worth it? Is it worth it? Is it worth it? Or maybe I'm scared when there is an enemy present. You see the battlefield is different from جهاد النفس the struggle against the self. This is serious. I might find someone on the other side not just my own exhaustion but an energetic enemy on the other side that's ready to kill me. And Medina is full of warriors. Medina is full of righteous warriors. But Anas صلى الله تعالى عنه said by the time people got to the edges of Medina تلقاهم النبي صلى الله عليه وسلم على فرس لأبي طلحة The Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم met them on a horse of Abu Talha. He took the first horse he could find صلى الله عليه وسلم The horse was unsaddled. Think of the image. And he said وهو متقلل سيفه عليه وسلم الله عليه الصلاة والسلام The Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم had his sword hanging on his neck. Like he jumped on a horse put his sword on his neck and ran to the outside of Medina by himself صلى الله عليه وسلم by the time other people got up and thought to confront the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم had already cleared the premise. And he came back and he said لم ترعوا لم ترعوا Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. It's nothing. I checked it out. Is there not a connection between the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم hearing the call for prayer and then hearing the call for prayer. Is there not a connection of the Ummah? Is there not a connection between his willingness عليه الصلاة والسلام to be in the front line of Salah and to be in the front line of battle? Is there not a connection between what he generates of contentment in his prayer and what he generates of courage and his perseverance عليه الصلاة والسلام? It's all interrelated. In fact, it's so interlaced that the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم embedded these answers into the moment of the battle. The hadith of Abu Darda رضي الله تعالى عنه where he says about the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم خرجنا مع رسول الله صلى الله عليه وسلم في بعض غزواته We'd go out with the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم in battle. So it's not one ghazwa. It's not one battle. It's a consistent trend. And he says في حر شديد Sometimes it would be so hot that he said إن أحداً لَيَضَعُ يَدَهُ عَلَى رَأْسِهِ أَوْ كَفَّهُ عَلَى رَأْسِهِ I mean, imagine the scene of the companions. They'd literally start trying to shelter themselves from the sun like this. That's how hot it was in the desert with him صلى الله عليه وسلم من شدة الحر And he said مَا فِينَا صَائِمٌ إِلَّا رَسُولُ اللَّهِ صَلَّ اللَّهُ عَلَيْهِ وَسَلَّمُ وَعَبْدُ اللَّهُ عَبْدُ اللَّهُ عَبْدُ رَوَاحَةً Not a single one of us would be fasting except for the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم and عبد الله بن رواحة رضي الله تعالى عنه Think about that. He's bringing it in صلى الله عليه وسلم He's seeing it as a means of bringing about perseverance. What does this have to do with us beyond the admiration of the Messenger of Allah صلى الله عليه وسلم who is perfect in this and perfect in that perfect in his sincerity perfect in his steadfastness perfect in his courage perfect in his faith perfect in his contentment If you go back to the ayah إِنَّ الَّذِينَ قَالُوا رَبُّنَا اللَّهُ ثُمَّ اسْتَقَامُوا That verily those who say our Lord is Allah and then they stay firm. The narration of they staying firm is عَلَى فَرَاءَ ذِي اللَّهِ أو عَلَى أَمْرِ اللَّهِ On the obligations that Allah has placed upon them or in relation to this affair from Allah سُبْحَانَهُ وَ تَعَالَى What that means is there's a direct connection between how quickly you respond to the things that Allah سُبْحَانَهُ وَ تَعَالَى calls you to that are completely ordinary outside of the extraordinary not related to confronting the tyranny of these people not related to Gaza there is a connection between your willingness and your readiness when Allah calls you to anything and you squash the hesitation and you respond to the courage that is required for the moment when Allah سُبْحَانَهُ وَ تَعَالَى puts us in this. Now, Allah عز و جل also says and I'll conclude with this قَالَ سُبْحَانَ يَا أَيُّهَا الَّذِينَ آمَنُوا اسْتَعِينُوا بِالصَّبْرِ وَالصَّلَاةِ إِنَّ اللَّهَ مَعَ الصَّابِرِينَ Allah سُبْحَانَهُ وَ تَعَالَى says O you who believe, seek My help with patience and prayer indeed Allah is with the patience How many times have you seen the second part of that ayah clipped out and plastered on something إِنَّ اللَّهَ مَعَ الصَّابِرِينَ إِنَّ اللَّهَ مَعَ الصَّابِرِينَ It's fine, Allah is with the patience but are you actually part of that category here because you have to do what Allah tells you to do in the first part of the ayah in order to qualify for the reward of the second part of the ayah So are you simply saying إِنَّ اللَّهَ مَعَ الصَّابِرِينَ and then defining sabr yourself defining patience yourself When the scholars talk about this ayah الصبر here is actually referring to the practice of الصوم fasting fasting is the practice of fasting fasting is patience that is required to restrict you from desire Do you hold yourself back from desire when you have the opportunity to displease Allah The ability to control yourself willpower first starts with discipline الصلاة is the patience the patience that's required to pray long days and long nights is the patience to abide by the command of Allah الصلاة is the patience the patience that's required to pray long days and long nights it's the exertion of energy there's a physical response when you come to prayer there's a physical response when you come to prayer when you get up for salah when you plant your feet when you take your time in your recitation there's a physical exertion and so willpower is discipline and then willpower is determination there are two types of صبر here there are two types of patience that are being alluded to as we're in the moment that we're in right now as we're in the moment that we're in right now where things are going on for so long things are going on for so long it's been so many months how long are we going to talk about this how long are we going to keep on doing this it doesn't seem like any doors are opening it doesn't seem like this it doesn't seem like that by the way objectively speaking this was possibly the worst week for Israel since its illegal existence objectively speaking if you just took a step back an ICC warrant on an Israeli prime minister and a defense minister who thought that's possible an ICC order against Israel multiple nations around the world recognizing Palestine all in one week it was a miserable week for them Alhamdulillah may Allah give them many more miserable weeks but we have to be able to take a step back and be like you know what there's a perseverance here that's required for this no one said this was going to be a few months here no one said this was going to be a few months but while you're trying to figure out the next strategy to do this or the next strategy to do that realize that there's a direct correlation between your increase in your Ibadah and your quickness to respond to Allah and your quickness to respond to the next action that's necessary there be like the Prophet the worshipper be like the Prophet the warrior be like the Prophet there's no one who manifests perfection more than him there's no one who is more worthy of victory like him the more we become like him the more deserving we become the more dedicated we become the more we start to bring about inshaAllah ta'ala the reality that we know came about with the Messenger of Allah may Allah grant us that reality may Allah allow us to summon that strength through staying dedicated to the major and the minor acts of worship and staying the course with him and growing in our journey towards him and may Allah allow that to be an Ummah wide reality that leads to the victory for this Ummah Allahumma ameen I say to you this I say to you this, O Muslim messengers ask forgiveness for it is the Most Forgiving, the Most Merciful All praise is due to Allah and peace and blessings be upon the Messenger of Allah and upon his family and companions Allahumma forgive the believers and the Muslims and the living and the dead you are the Hearing, the Near, the Responder to prayers Allahumma forgive us and have mercy on us and do not punish us O our Lord, we have wronged ourselves and if you would not forgive us and have mercy on us we would not be of the losers O Allah, you are the Most Forgiving, the Most Generous you love to have mercy and have mercy on us O Allah, forgive our parents O our Lord, have mercy on them as you have forgiven our children O our Lord, grant us from our husbands and our children the power of the eyes and make us the imam of the righteous O Allah, grant us the victory for our weak brothers in Palestine and in Sudan and everywhere O Allah, make the Muslims and Muslims proud and make the polytheists and liars proud and destroy the enemies of religion O Allah, destroy the oppressors with the oppressors and bring us out, O our brothers, from among the peaceful O our Lord, we ask Allah to command us to be good and to be kind and to be kind to the poor and to stop the immorality, the bad and the bad and to remind you that you are remembering so remember Allah who remembers you and thank Him for the blessings that He gives you and remember Allah the Greatest and may Allah know what you do and establish the prayer and make our etwaside' just